README.md, before:

# UniExpect
UniExpect (UE) offers inline testing for *any* command-line-executable language,
effectively making the notion of doctests universal. There are two immediate
benefits to using the UE utility:

1. With this, code in all languages can be placed directly below executable,
easily-checked tests that help to explain a function or class's basic
functionality.

2. The "unittest" approach to testing antiquates manual, sandbox testing.
Writing code in SQL could, for example, could benefit immensely. Each accidental
table modification means you have to restart the session, copy in the data, and
*then* try your code again. With UE, it's just one command: `expect test.sql`.

See below for how to get started.

##Installation

At some point, UniExpect will be installable via pypi:

```
pip install uniexpect
```

##How to Use

The standard expect syntax matches that of Python doctests. By default, the
test input prefix is `>>>`. In other words, tests following the following
format.

```
>>> <input>
<output>
```

Any language with block comments, such as `/* ... */` or `""" ... """`, can use
the following syntax:

```
/*
>>> <test input>
<expected output>
>>> <test input>
<expected output>
*/
```

For languages that only support inline comments, UE default configuration files
use the following convention to denote test suites:

```
###
# >>> <test input>
# <expected output>
# >>> <test input>
# <expected output>
###
```

The comment symbol is simply repeated three times before and after the test
suite. For more concrete examples, see the `samples/` folder.

##How to Run

Usage is simple. To run `expect` on `samples/scheme.scm`:

```
expect samples/scheme.scm
```

##Settings

The following is an abridged list of more commonly-used settings. For a full
list, run `expect --help`.

###`--language=<language>`

If the language is not specified, UE will (1) assume the file extension is
the language name and, if no such configuration file exists, will (2) search all
preference files with the same first letter as the extension.

Example: `expect samples/sql.sql --language=sql`

###`--verbose`

Just as Python doctests do, UniExpect only reports incorrect outputs by
default. To view all output, pass the `verbose` flag. Add `v`s to increase
verbosity, with `-vvv` for maximum whining.

Examples:
- `expect samples/python.py --verbose`
- `expect samples/python.py -vvv`

##Support

UniExpect can be used for nearly any programming language. Here are a few that
I've already setup configurations for:

- python2.7
```
expect samples/python.py --language=python2
```

- python3
```
expect samples/python.py --language=python3
```

- scheme
```
expect samples/scheme.scm
```
version: chibi-scheme

- sqlite3
```
expect samples/sqlite.sql
```

- bash3.2
```
expect samples/bash.sh --language=bash
```

UE has also been setup to work with custom programming languages.

- berkeleyscheme
```
expect samples/berkeleyscheme.scm --language=berkeleyscheme
```

##How to Add a Language

(coming soon)

Commit message:

created setup, command line link

README.md, after:

# UniExpect
UniExpect (UE) offers inline testing for *any* REPL language, making the notion of 
doctests more universal and even more versatile. There are two immediate
benefits to using the UE utility:

1. With this, code in all supported languages can be placed directly below executable,
easily-checked tests that help to explain a function or class's basic
functionality.

2. The "unittest" approach to testing antiquates manual, sandbox testing.
Writing code in SQL could, for example, could benefit immensely. Each accidental
table modification means you have to restart the session, copy in the data, and
*then* try your code again. With UE, it's just one command: `expect test.sql`.

See below for how to get started.

## Installation

UniExpect is now installable via pypi:

```
pip install uniexpect
```

## How to Use

The standard expect syntax matches that of Python doctests. By default, the
test input prefix is `>>>`. In other words, tests following the following
format.

```
>>> <input>
<output>
```

Any language with block comments, such as `/* ... */` or `""" ... """`, can use
the following syntax:

```
/*
>>> <test input>
<expected output>
>>> <test input>
<expected output>
*/
```

For languages that only support inline comments, UE default configuration files
use the following convention to denote test suites:

```
###
# >>> <test input>
# <expected output>
# >>> <test input>
# <expected output>
###
```

The comment symbol is simply repeated three times before and after the test
suite. For more concrete examples, see the `samples/` folder.

## How to Run

Usage is simple. To run `expect` on `samples/scheme.scm`:

```
expect samples/scheme.scm
```

## Settings

The following is an abridged list of more commonly-used settings. For a full
list, run `expect --help`.

### `--language=<language>`

If the language is not specified, UE will (1) assume the file extension is
the language name and, if no such configuration file exists, will (2) search all
preference files with the same first letter as the extension.

Example: `expect samples/sql.sql --language=sql`

### `--verbose`

Just as Python doctests do, UniExpect only reports incorrect outputs by
default. To view all output, pass the `verbose` flag. Add `v`s to increase
verbosity, with `-vvv` for maximum whining.

Examples:
- `expect samples/python.py --verbose`
- `expect samples/python.py -vvv`

## Support

UniExpect can be used for nearly any programming language. Here are a few that
I've already setup configurations for:

- python2.7
```
expect samples/python.py --language=python2
```

- python3
```
expect samples/python.py --language=python3
```

- scheme
```
expect samples/scheme.scm
```
version: chibi-scheme

- sqlite3
```
expect samples/sqlite.sql
```

- bash3.2
```
expect samples/bash.sh --language=bash
```

UE has also been setup to work with custom programming languages.

- berkeleyscheme
```
expect samples/berkeleyscheme.scm --language=berkeleyscheme
```

## How to Add a Language

(coming soon)
